---
sidebar_position: 20
---

# Instance Type

### Instance Type Categories

- Predefined instance types
    - These instance types are automatically generated by Cloudpods, and users can create their own
- Private cloud instance types
    - These instance types come from private cloud account synchronization and are used to create corresponding private cloud instances
- Public cloud instance types
    - These instance types are collected and organized from various public cloud platforms and uploaded to Alibaba Cloud OSS. The Cloudpods platform will periodically (default 1 hour) pull or update instance types from OSS

#### Predefined Instance Types

When the Region service starts, it will check if predefined instance types exist. If they don't exist, they will be automatically created. Therefore, if users delete some predefined instance types, restarting the service will regenerate the corresponding predefined instance types.
Predefined instance types are also used for some private platforms that don't support instance types, such as (VMware, Nutanix, Proxmox...)

```shell
# Create Cloudpods 1 core 3G instance type
$ climc server-sku-create 1 3072
```

### Private Cloud Instance Types

Private cloud instance types can be deleted, which will call the private cloud API to delete instance types on the private cloud platform. Please operate with caution.
If instance type information on the private cloud platform changes, you need to synchronize the private cloud account. Instance types will be updated following the private cloud platform instance type information.

### Public Cloud Instance Types

These instance types are organized and updated to Alibaba Cloud OSS by the Cloudpods team.
Early public cloud instance types, like private clouds, were also synchronized from cloud accounts to the Cloudpods platform. Due to the large number of instance types and the fact that importing multiple cloud accounts from the same platform would cause duplicate synchronization, leading to low synchronization efficiency, the method was changed to first synchronize to Alibaba Cloud OSS, then Cloudpods pulls them to local.

Public cloud instance types are only automatically pulled after importing public cloud platform accounts
- When the first account of the same public cloud platform is imported, instance types will be synchronized. The number of instance types will affect the efficiency of the first cloud account synchronization. Please wait patiently for the cloud account synchronization to complete. Accounts imported later are not affected by instance type synchronization
- After the last account of the same public cloud platform is deleted, the corresponding platform instance types will also be completely cleaned up and deleted

Some cloud platforms (such as Alibaba Cloud) have different instance type lists that regular users and enterprise users can purchase. Cloudpods collects enterprise instance types. If you encounter some instance types that cannot be purchased, please confirm whether your account is an enterprise account.

Currently, public cloud instance types cannot be updated in real time. Cloudpods will update instance type information at least once a day. Users can temporarily disable or enable instance type sales information on the Cloudpods control panel. Cloudpods will refresh the previous settings during the next instance type update.

Instance type data is saved in Alibaba Cloud OSS https://yunionmeta.oss-cn-beijing.aliyuncs.com. If the public cloud instance type list is empty, please check if the network from the Cloudpods platform to https://yunionmeta.oss-cn-beijing.aliyuncs.com is accessible.

